Chapter 2: Grandparents

Student Learning Outcomes

After reading this unit, the students will be able to:
• use pre-reading strategies to: predict the content of a text from topic/ pictures, title/headings etc., by using prior knowledge.
• apply while-reading strategies to interact with the text. locate/ scan specific information to answer short questions.
• use post reading strategies to respond to the text by: applying world knowledge and own opinion to the text read relate their feelings and experiences to what is read.
• pronounce and practice more words with silent letters such as ‘t’ in switch, ‘g’ sound in ‘high’.
• articulate, practice and syllabify words containing digraphs, tri-graphs, and silent letters.
• classify into different categories, and use more naming, action and describing words, from pictures, signboards, advertisements, labels etc. in their immediate and extended environment.
• recall, and demonstrate use of more common/proper nouns, countable/uncountable nouns.
• recall and practice the use of article “a” and “an”. write multi-syllable words with their correct spellings.

PRE-READING

i) Look at the picture and read the title of the poem.
ii) Can you tell who are grandparents?

WHILE-READING

Grandparents are special people
with wisdom and pride.
They are always offering love and kindness
and are always there to guide.
They often make you feel
so confident and strong.
There arms always open,
no matter what you did wrong.
They try to help out
in every way that they can.
They love all their grandchildren the same
whether you are a child, woman or man.
They are always there to listen
and to lend a helping hand.

Stacy Smith

About the Poem:
Grandparents have a special place in our lives. They are the ones who guide us throughout their lives. Their love is unconditional and equal for all of us. They make us feel confident with their own wise ways. Grandparents offer kindness and care to all of us, no matter we are a child or a grown person. They offer help whenever needed. We should love them like they love us.

Question:

what do grandparents make us feel ?

POST-READING

i) Who tries to help us out whenever they can?
ii) Should we all care for our grandparents, like they care for us?

TEACHER’S NOTE (Reading)

• Do model reading of the text in front of class with correct pronunciation and intonation. Discuss the beauty of childhood with students. Ask them to answer the questions.

Exercises

A Oral Communication

Pronunciation Skills
i) Read the following words with silent letters: know, knife, listen, debt, subtle, scissors, write, wrist.

Speaking Skills
ii) Read and role-play the given conversation with your classmates.

B Reading and Critical Analysis

Reading Comprehension
i) Answer the following questions.
• Who is the writer of the poem?
• From whom can we seek guidance?
• What do our grandparents always lend us whenever needed?
• Do grandparents love all their children equally?
ii) Read the lesson again and make a tick ( ) against true statement and cross ( ) against false one.
iii) Read the following sentences and notice the use of digraphs and trigraphs.
iv) Read the following sentences. Underline the digraphs and circle the trigraphs.

Analytical Reading
v) Read any poem about childhood and note it down in your notebook.

C Language Check

Vocabulary Building
i) Read the given words with their meanings.
ii) Read the following advertisement carefully. Find the naming, action and describing words and write them below.
iii) Use the following words in your own sentence and write them in your notebook: wrinkle, helpless, beads, young, old.

Grammar Focus
iv) Read the following sentences and focus on the common and proper nouns.
v) Read the following sentences. Underline the nouns and write their type (common nouns / proper nouns).
vi) Read the following paragraph and notice the use of countable, uncountable and collective nouns.
vii) Read the following paragraph and pick out countable, uncountable and collective nouns and write them in the given spaces.
viii) Read the following paragraph and focus on the use of articles.
xi) Fill in the blanks with “a” / “an”.

D Writing Skills

Learn Writing
i) Read the words and their syllable division.
ii) Divide the following words into their syllables and give the number of syllables below.

Creative Writing
iii) Write a paragraph in your notebook about your career and how will you serve your nation?

POINTS TO PONDER

Silent letters: Silent letters are written but not pronounced.

Common Nouns: The names of a class of people, places or things are called common nouns. For example: girl, home, book etc.

Proper Nouns: The names of particular persons, places or things are called proper nouns. Proper nouns always start with a capital letter. For example: Badshahi Masjid, Lahore, Allama Iqbal, etc.

Countable, Uncountable, and Collective Nouns: The nouns which can be counted are called countable nouns, e.g. an apple, five books, thousand cars. They have plural forms. The nouns which cannot be counted are called uncountable nouns, e.g. rain, flour, sand. The nouns which show the group of people, things are called collective nouns, e.g. team, group, herd.

Articles 'a' and 'an': We use ‘a’ before a noun starting with a consonant and the article ‘an’ is used before a noun starting with a vowel.

TEACHER’S NOTE (Exercises)

• Recall the concept of silent letters for better understanding. Encourage students to say more words with silent letters.
• Encourage them to practice the given dialogue with correct pronunciation.
• Ask students to share some examples of digraphs and trigraphs.
• Explain to students the concept of naming, action and describing words.
• Ask them to share some more examples.
• Explain the concept of articles ‘a’ and ‘an’ to students.
• Recall the concept of syllables to students. Tell them that combinations of more than one unit of sound in a language are called multi-syllables.
• Encourage students to write their own piece of writing. Guide them in writing the main idea. Guide them about the topic sentence and supporting details.