Chapter 1 Reading matirial:

Teacher’s Note
• Do model reading of the text with correct pronunciation and intonation in front of the class. Guide them about the life of our beloved Rasool ( ).

Pre-Reading
i) Do you know about the kind personality of our beloved Rasool ( )?
ii) Do you know who is the final Rasool ( ) ?

While-Reading
who is the role-model for all humanity ?

While-Reading
what came towards Rasool weeping tenderly?

Post-Reading
what was did the birds do when the hatchling was?

Reading:

The life of our kind Rasool is the role-model for all humanity till the Day of Judgment. Patience and kindness were the greatest virtues of our Holy Rasool ( ). He repeatedly advised his companions to be kind to all the lives around them, without any discrimination. The Holy Rasool ( ) was kind and affectionate not only to human beings but also to all creatures of the universe. For this very reason Allah Almighty was pleased to bestow upon him the title of ‘Benefactor of all the worlds.’ Once Holy Rasool ( ) told his companions, “Allah Almighty will not be kind to him who is not kind to others”Whenever our kind Rasool ( ) used to come across any animal which was over-burdened or ill fed he would speak mildly to the owner and say “Fear Allah regarding these dumb animals. Ride them when they are in good condition and feed them when they are in good condition.” (Abu Dawood-2548) Once the Holy Rasool ( ) was traveling with his companions. During their journey when they decided to have some rest under the shade of date palm trees, Rasool ( ) entered in the bushes nearby which belonged to a man from Ansaar. Suddenly a camel came towards him weeping tenderly with its eyes welling with tears. When the camel reached Rasool ( ) it began to groan and its eyes flowed with tears. Holy Rasool ( ) patted on its hump and the base of its head until the camel quieted down. Then, He ( ) asked “who is the owner of this camel?” a young man came forward and said “it is mine, O Messenger of Allah.” Rasool ( ) said “Do you not fear Allah with regard to this creature which He has placed in your possession? It has complained to me that you starve it and put it to extreme work.” (Abu Dawood-2549) The young man understood the words of Rasool ( ) and then the Holy Rasool ( ) and his companions continued their journey. The traditions of Holy Rasool Hazrat Muhammad ( ) reminds us that human kind was sent on this earth to be the custodian of Allah’s Almighty creation. Our kind Rasool ( ) was not just concerned about the physical health of animals but also their emotional conditions.
Once the Holy Rasool ( ) went out on a journey along with some of his companions. While passing through, they came across a sparrow’s nest. There were hatchlings, resting in absence of their mother. A companion of the Rasool ( ) picked up one of the hatchling to inspect. All at once, few sparrows came crying and began to fly over his head, beating their wings in grief. The Holy Rasool ( ) inquired why the sparrows were circling over them. Companions told the Holy Rasool ( ) that a hatchling had been removed from its nest by one of us. The Holy Rasool ( ) was greatly moved. He ( ) felt sorry for the poor little birds which were incapable of doing anything about it. Holy Rasool ( ) at once asked his companion to put back the hatchling in its nest, which he did without any delay. Circling sparrows were relieved after this and the cry of all the birds was finally over. (Abu Dawood-2675) We should learn and follow our kind Prophet ( ) and treat animals around us well. We should be considerate about their physical and emotional health and never harm them for sport.



Chapter 2 Reading matirial:

Teacher’s Note
• Do model reading of the text in front of class with correct pronunciation and intonation. Discuss the beauty of childhood with students. Ask them to answer the questions. 

Pre-Reading
i) Look at the picture and read the title of the poem.
ii) Can you tell who are grandparents?

While-Reading
what do grandparents make us feel ?

Post-Reading
i) Who tries to help us out whenver they can?
ii) Should we all care for our grandparents, like they care for us?

Grandparents are special people
with wisdom and pride.
They are always offering love and kindness
and are always there to guide.
They often make you feel
so confident and strong.
There arms always open,
no matter what you did wrong.
They try to help out
in every way that they can.
They love all their grandchildren the same
whether you are a child, woman or man.
They are always there to listen
and to lend a helping hand.
Stacy Smith

About the Poem:
Grandparents have a special place in our lives. They are the ones who guide us throughout their lives. Their love is unconditional and equal for all of us. They make us feel confident with their own wise ways. Grandparents offer kindness and care to all of us, no matter we are a child or a grown person. They offer help whenever needed. We should love them like they love us.



Chapter 3 Reading matirial:

Teacher’s Note
• Do model reading of the text in front of students with correct pronunciation and intonation. Ask them to read the text on their own. Guide them about the biography.

Pre-Reading
i) Do you know what a biography is?
ii) Have you ever read a biography of any famous personality?

While-Reading
Most biographies starts in which sequence?

While-Reading
Why was Helen unable to read and write?

Post-Reading
i) How did the teacher help Helen to learn language?
ii) Which language is learned by Helen ?

Biography means an account of a person’s life written by someone else. Sometimes, you begin to like or admire a famous person about whom you have heard or read. Now you want to know more about that personality, so you will read their biography. A biography tells the life story of a real person. Almost every famous person has a biography, written about him or her. Many biographies have the pictures of the person, too. The details in a biography are often true. The events in a person’s life are told in the order in which they happened. Most biographies start by telling about the person as a child. Then a biography gives facts about the person’s later life. You learn why the person is famous. 
Some people make the world a better place to live in. Some have great adventures. Others are best at what they do. Read this true story about a famous teacher named Annie Sullivan. Her student, Helen Keller, who became a famous American author. 
Annie Sullivan was an American teacher best known for being teacher and a companion to Helen Keller. At the age of five Annie contracted trachoma, an eye disease, which can almost blindness. Annie received her education at Perkins school for the Blind, where she learned Braille. Braille is the system by which blind people read by feeling raised dots on a page. She also learned how to talk to people who could not hear or see. She could tap words very quickly on their hands to communicate. Soon after graduation, she became a teacher to Helen Keller.

Captain and Mrs. Keller of Tuscumbia, Alabama, wanted a teacher for their little girl, Helen. Helen was six years old. She was blind and deaf. She could not speak. Before she was two years old, an illness took away her sight, hearing and speech. She lived in a world of darkness. Annie Sullivan struggled to teach Helen but she never gave up on her. She began by spelling words into Helen’s hands. Helen did not understand what words were. She did not know that everything has a name. She did not know that words can be put into sentences. Annie taught Helen many things by touching and spelling them into Helen’s hand. Still Helen didn’t understand.

Annie thought of a way to help Helen. She took

Helen to the outdoor water pump. Helen held a mug while water was pumped into it. The cold water spilled over Helen’s hand. Annie spelled water as this happened. Suddenly Helen’s face changed. She spelled water by herself many times. She pointed to the pump, then to the ground, and asked for names. Quickly Annie spelled these words. Helen wanted to know the name of every object she touched. She learned thirty new words in a very short time. Annie was overjoyed. She knew that she had broken through the darkness at last. She had given Helen a key to the world around her the key of language. Later on Helen Keller became the first disabled woman to graduate from Harvard University and the best author of her time.

