Chapter 3: Biography
Student Learning Outcomes
After reading this unit, the students will be able to:
• use pre-reading strategies to: predict the content of a text from topic/ pictures, title/headings etc., by using prior knowledge.
• apply while-reading strategies to interact with the text. locate/ scan specific information to answer short questions.
• use post reading strategies to respond to the text by: applying world knowledge and own opinion to the text read relate their feelings and experiences to what is read.
• classify and use adjectives of quantity, quality, size, shape, colour and origin.
• classify more words that begin with vowel sounds.
• use appropriate expression to express and respond to opinion
• change the number of regular and irregular nouns with no change in number.
• Recognize meaning of common adjectives and verbs in relation to each other.
• analyse and use conjunctions (e.g. and, but, or, and because) transitional words.
• write a paragraph to describe/show sequence in a picture/series of pictures.

PRE-READING
i) Do you know what a biography is?
ii) Have you ever read a biography of any famous personality?

WHILE-READING
Biography means an account of a person’s life written by someone else. Sometimes, you begin to like or admire a famous person about whom you have heard or read. Now you want to know more about that personality, so you will read their biography. A biography tells the life story of a real person. Almost every famous person has a biography, written about him or her. Many biographies have the pictures of the person, too. The details in a biography are often true. The events in a person’s life are told in the order in which they happened. Most biographies start by telling about the person as a child. Then a biography gives facts about the person’s later life. You learn why the person is famous.
Some people make the world a better place to live in. Some have great adventures. Others are best at what they do. Read this true story about a famous teacher named Annie Sullivan. Her student, Helen Keller, who became a famous American author.
Annie Sullivan was an American teacher best known for being teacher and a companion to Helen Keller. At the age of five Annie contracted trachoma, an eye disease, which can almost blindness. Annie received her education at Perkins school for the Blind, where she learned Braille. Braille is the system by which blind people read by feeling raised dots on a page. She also learned how to talk to people who could not hear or see. She could tap words very quickly on their hands to communicate. Soon after graduation, she became a teacher to Helen Keller.
Captain and Mrs. Keller of Tuscumbia, Alabama, wanted a teacher for their little girl, Helen. Helen was six years old. She was blind and deaf. She could not speak. Before she was two years old, an illness took away her sight, hearing and speech. She lived in a world of darkness. Annie Sullivan struggled to teach Helen but she never gave up on her. She began by spelling words into Helen’s hands. Helen did not understand what words were. She did not know that everything has a name. She did not know that words can be put into sentences. Annie taught Helen many things by touching and spelling them into Helen’s hand. Still Helen didn’t understand.
Annie thought of a way to help Helen. She took Helen to the outdoor water pump. Helen held a mug while water was pumped into it. The cold water spilled over Helen’s hand. Annie spelled water as this happened. Suddenly Helen’s face changed. She spelled water by herself many times. She pointed to the pump, then to the ground, and asked for names. Quickly Annie spelled these words. Helen wanted to know the name of every object she touched. She learned thirty new words in a very short time. Annie was overjoyed. She knew that she had broken through the darkness at last. She had given Helen a key to the world around her the key of language. Later on Helen Keller became the first disabled woman to graduate from Harvard University and the best author of her time.

Questions:

Most biographies starts in which sequence?

Why was Helen unable to read and write?

POST-READING
i) How did the teacher help Helen to learn language?
ii) Which language is learned by Helen ?

TEACHER’S NOTE (Reading)
• Do model reading of the text in front of students with correct pronunciation and intonation. Ask them to read the text on their own. Guide them about the biography.

Exercises
A Oral Communication

Pronunciation Skills
i) Read the following sentences and focus on the words with vowel sounds.
ii) Write ten words that begin with vowel sounds.

Speaking Skills
iii) Read and role-play the given conversation with your classmate.

B Reading and Critical Analysis

Reading Comprehension
i) Answer these questions.
• What does the word biography mean?
• How are the events of a person’s life told in a biography?
• What is ‘Braille’?
• How did Hellen Keller lose her eye sight?
• How did Annie Sullivan begin to teach Hellen Keller?
ii) Reread the lesson and fill in the blanks by selecting the correct words from the lesson.
iii) Read the following paragraph and notice the use of conjunctions.

Analytical Reading
iv) Browse a biography of any famous personality from the internet. Focus on his/ her working and share this with your classmates.

C Language Check

Vocabulary Building
i) Read the words with their meanings.
ii) Read the following expressions carefully.
iii) Read the following conversation and observe the use of these expressions.
iv) Fill in the blanks to finish these words.

Grammar Focus
v) Read the following nouns.
vi) Read the following nouns and write their plural forms.
vii) Read the following detail to know the use of article ‘the’.
viii) Complete the sentences with correct articles.
ix) Read the following sentences and notice the types of adjectives.
x) Read the following adjectives and put them in the correct category below.

D Writing Skills

Learn Writing
i) Look at the given pictures and write a story in your notebook.

Creative Writing
ii) Write any incident of your life when you helped somebody in trouble.

POINTS TO PONDER
Regular and Irregular Nouns: We make simple changes (adding ‘s’ or ‘es’ to the end of a word) to make plural of the regular nouns. Irregular nouns are made differently.

Definite Article (the): We use ‘the’ when:

We talk about something already known.

We refer to people or objects that are very unique.

Before superlatives of adjectives.

Write the names of rivers, mountain ranges, canals. etc

With the names of famous buildings/places.

TEACHER’S NOTE (Exercises)
• Tell students that different expressions are used in various situations. Ask them to use the given expressions in their daily life. Explain to students the concept of regular and irregular nouns and their plurals by giving more examples.
• Explain to students the concept of the definite article 'the' and its rules in detail by giving more examples.
• Encourage students to write their own piece of writing. Guide them in writing a main idea. Ask students to look at the pictures carefully and write a story in their own words.